# Notes on talks for 2016 WSDS Conference

My notes and slides for the [2016 Women in Statistics and Data Science (WSDS) Conference](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2016/index.cfm) 
at in Charlotte, North Carolina from Oct 20-22, 2016. Here is a link to the online
[WSDS Program](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2016/onlineprogram/index.cfm). 
Follow the twitter hashtag [#WSDS2016](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23WSDS2016&src=typd). 
Feel free to tweet me [@stephaniehicks](https://twitter.com/stephaniehicks). 


## Thursday, Oct 20

### Session: The Postdoc Option: Career Impacts 

- Kassandra Fronczyk, Institute for Defense Analyses
- Stephanie Hicks, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Harvard, [@stephaniehicks](https://twitter.com/stephaniehicks)
- Yajuan Sophie Si, University of Wisconsin, [@sophiesiduke](https://twitter.com/sophiesiduke)

I will write a blogpost soon about this topic. 

### Session: Do You Hear What I Hear?: An Examination of Effective Communication 

- Erin Anika Wiley, Westat
	- Conducted a survey on presentations from statisticians. Found 5 key conclusions. 
		1. Listener engagement. 
			Do: make it understandable. Address audience you have not what you want. Why does audience need to know this info? Not give theory background. For a mixer group, aim for the middle. Show how subject fits into their big picture. Make it enjoyable. Show enthusiasm. Enjoy real life stories and humor. Pay attention. Engage audience. Check for understanding along the way. Place yourself in audiences shoes. 
			Don't: avoid text and formulas. Avoid unnecessary details. Don't go too fast. Watch for signs that audience isn't getting the message. It's not about the speaker, but about the message. 
		2. Tone of voice. 
			Conversational tone: suggests peer to peer respect. vs Instructional tone: less risk of diminishing the importance of understanding. Conversational is best for the work place. 
		3. Good practices. 
			**Who**: audience is important. **What**: all about the content especially for dealing with clients. **When**: structure time to keep audience engaged. **Where**: watch for signs of understanding. **Why**: make sure they get the info they need.  **How**: if you think about any of the above, your presentation style is already effected. People hate jargon!!!
		4. Relationships. Relationships with colleagues change over time and your communication with them will too.
		5. Thoughts about email vs communication in person. 
			- Pros: necessary and unavoidable. Can be read and referred back to. Enjoyable and pref for some. 
			- Cons: can be too reliant. (e.g. email 3 doors down). Good for specifics but not broader discussions. Tone and intent cannot be determined. 
			- Short emails are good. Bad grammar leaves negative impressions. Be responsible when using cc. 


### Keynote Lecture: Consider your Legacy 

- Cynthia Z.F. Clark
	- Gave an inspirational talk discussing what her contributions have been in her personal and professional life. She reflected and summarized what she believed her legacy is which included: (1) family (spouse, 6 children and 18 (!!) grandchildren), (2) friends and colleagues, (3) associates she has mentored, (4) leadership of research and other improvements and contributions to US official statistics (started out teaching and ended up as a leader in statistical methods for agricultural data), (5) a strategic vision that leads her to inspiring different aspects of her life, (6) honesty and integrity in her efforts. 

## Friday, Oct 21

### Keynote Address: Know Your Power 

- Stacy Lindborg, Biogen	
	- Shared 5 reflections/tips on having a successful career which can feel like challenging at times or like a roller coaster: (1) Being busy is not the same as being productive. Failure is OK. Women underestimate their value. Men tend to overestimate value. Focus. (2) Need to learn to be dance (flexible). (3) Need to communicate. Be kind to be people; be hard on problems. (4) Need to reflect. (5) Have to be accountable to your own growth. 


### Session: Forging Your Path: Turns and Detours 

- Michelle Dunn, NIH, Turns and Detours: Navigating Your Career 
	- Advice on your career path: Follow your passion. It may take you through a non-traditional career path, you may fail and your passions may change over time. Four things to set yourself up for success to find new opportunities: (1) Prepare yourself intellectually and gaining the expertise. 2) persevere, (3) build a network who are motivated for your mutual gain, (4) be open to new ideas and risks.

- Donna LaLonde, ASA, It's Ok to Fail 
	- Highly suggests having a set of trusted advisors to recognize when you need to move forward or help you think through the tough decisions. When you get stuck in life, DO something to move forward! 

- Nancy Flournoy, University of Missouri, Knowing When to Leave 
	- Shared very honest and personal experiences of leaving jobs. If you are in a constrained position (personally, mentally, intellectually), you can either to choose to stay constrained or you can break out into the unknown (can be a very scary thought). Networking is hugely beneficial when looking for new positions. 


### Session: Career and Kids: Some Pros and Cons on Timing

- Scarlett Bellamy, University of Pennsylvania 
- Julie Legler, St. Olaf College 
- Mary Dupuis Sammel, University of Pennsylvania 
- Kimberly Sellers, Georgetown University  
- Jing Zhao, Merck 


### Session: Past, Current, and Future: ASA Presidents' Perspectives 

Panel of Past, Present, and Future ASA Presidents 

- Lynne Billard, University of Georgia
- Mary Ellen Bock, Purdue University. Discussed the importance of supporting non-white women in this field. 
- Nancy Geller, Office of Biostatistics Research. "I find it necessary to speak in groups when there are few women there."
- Sally Morton, University of Pittsburgh. Says she worked very hard when she was young and then had to learn how to work efficiently when she had a family. Her career now is about helping other people's careers. 
- Jessica Utts, University of California. If she was 18 and could choose a different career, she says she would write historical novels and travel the world doing the research needed to write the novels. 

### Session: Legal Perspectives for Women in Statistics 

- Mary W. Gray, American University
	- Fascinating discussion on what US laws exist to protect women. Wear's a 3/4 euro pin to promote "equal pay for equal work" referring to the Equal Pay Act in 1963 and Title VII in 1964. 
	

## Saturday, Oct 22

### Keynote Address: Big Data and Grand Challenges in the Federal Statistical Agencies Presented 

- Wendy L Martinez, Bureau of Labor Statistics


### Session: Effective Leadership

- Kim-Anh Do, MD Anderson 
- Jane Pendergast, Duke University 
- Nancy Reid, University of Toronto 
- Kathryn Roeder, Carnegie Mellon University 

